Ahmed, Sara. The Promise of Happiness.

Ang, Ien. Living Room Wars: Rethinking Media Audiences for a Postmodern World.

Banet-Weiser, Sarah. Authentic™: The Politics of Ambivalence in a Brand Culture.

Banet-Weiser, Sarah. Kids Rule!: Nickelodeon and Consumer Citizenship.

Bordo, Susan. Unbearable Weight: Feminism, Western Culture, and the Body.

Booth, Paul. Digital Fandom: New Media Studies.

Brunsdon, Charlotte. The Feminist, the Housewife, and the Soap Opera.

Bruzzi, Stella. Undressing Cinema: Clothing and Identity in the Movies.

Bruzzi, Stella, and Pamela Church Gibson, eds. Fashion Cultures Revisited: Theories, Explorations and Analysis.

Burton, Laini. “Nobody’s Fool: Power and Agency in Performing ‘The Blonde’.”

Caws, Mary Ann. “What to Wear in a Vampire Film.” In Fashion in Film, edited by Adrienne Munich.

Currie, Dawn H., Deirdre M. Kelly, and Shauna Pomerantz. Girl Power: Girls Reinventing Girlhood.

Douglas, Susan. Where the Girls Are: Growing Up Female with the Mass Media.

Driscoll, Catherine. Girls: Feminine Adolescence in Popular Culture and Cultural Theory.

Dyer, Richard. Stars.

Entwistle, Joanne. The Fashioned Body: Fashion, Dress and Modern Social Theory.

Feasey, Rebecca. Masculinity and Popular Television.

Feuer, Jane. “Genre Study and Television.”

Gill, Rosalind. Gender and the Media.

Halberstam, Jack. The Queer Art of Failure.

Haraway, Donna J. Simians, Cyborgs, and Women: The Reinvention of Nature.

Harris, Anita. Future Girl: Young Women in the Twenty-First Century.

hooks, bell. Feminist Theory: From Margin to Center.

Jenkins, Henry. Textual Poachers: Television Fans and Participatory Culture.

Jolly, Penny Howell. “Hair: Untangling a Social History.”

Lotz, Amanda D. Redesigning Women: Television after the Network Era.

McLean, Adrienne L. Costume, Makeup, and Hair.

McRobbie, Angela. The Aftermath of Feminism: Gender, Culture and Social Change.

Mittell, Jason. Complex TV: The Poetics of Contemporary Television Storytelling.

Munich, Adrienne, ed. Fashion in Film.

Rooks, Noliwe M. Hair Raising: Beauty, Culture, and African American Women.

Spigel, Lynn. “Entertainment Wars: Television Culture after 9/11.”

Tasker, Yvonne. Working Girls: Gender and Sexuality in Popular Cinema.

Tasker, Yvonne, and Diane Negra. Interrogating Postfeminism: Gender and the Politics of Popular Culture.

Weitz, Rose. Rapunzel’s Daughters: What Women’s Hair Tells Us About Women’s Lives.

Williams, Linda. “Melodrama Revised.”

Williams, Rebecca. Post-Object Fandom: Television, Identity and Self-Narrative.

Also in that same Buffy bibliography are the Buffy-specific secondary and paratextual references:

Allie, Scott. Interview with the creative team, in Buffy the Vampire Slayer: Season Ten—New Rules Deluxe Edition.

Gage, Christos, et al. “New Rules.” Buffy the Vampire Slayer Season Ten, vol. 1.

Jeanty, Georges. Artist interview, in Buffy the Vampire Slayer: Season Eight—The Long Way Home Deluxe Edition.

Ruditis, Paul. Buffy the Vampire Slayer: The Watcher’s Guide, vol. 3.

Stafford, Nikki. Bite Me!: The Unofficial Guide to Buffy the Vampire Slayer.

Whedon, Joss, et al. “The Long Way Home.” Buffy the Vampire Slayer Season Eight, vol. 1.

Whedon, Joss, et al. “Freefall.” Buffy the Vampire Slayer: Season Nine, vol. 1.

The primary Buffy episode references explicitly listed there are:

“Welcome to the Hellmouth”
“Prophecy Girl”
“Becoming, Part One”
“Becoming, Part Two”
“Graduation Day, Part One”
“Graduation Day, Part Two”
“The Freshman”
“Restless”
“Buffy vs. Dracula”
“Fool for Love”
“The Gift”
“Bargaining, Part One”
“Bargaining, Part Two”
“Gone”
“Lessons”
“Showtime”
“Chosen”

Then, from the Willow/Anya Buffy drafts, I can confirm an additional theory cluster that your later Buffy work is also using: Ahmed on queer phenomenology, Berlant on cruel optimism, Braidotti on the posthuman, Muñoz on queer temporality/futurity, Russell on glitch feminism, and Taylor on archive/repertoire. Those titles are:

Sara Ahmed, Queer Phenomenology: Orientations, Objects, Others.

Lauren Berlant, Cruel Optimism.

Rosi Braidotti, The Posthuman.

José Esteban Muñoz, Cruising Utopia: The Then and There of Queer Futurity.

Legacy Russell, Glitch Feminism: A Manifesto.

Diana Taylor, The Archive and the Repertoire: Performing Cultural Memory in the Americas.